# Notes

## Q. What is npm?

npm is a package manager but it doesn't stand for 'node package manager', it doesn't have a full form. It is basically a repository where JavaScript packages are hosted.

## Q. What is Parcel/Webpack?

Pracel and Webpack are both bundler perform the below tasks.

- Dev Builds
- Local Server
- HMR = Hot Module Replacement
- File Watching Algorithm - written in C++
- Caching - Faster Builds
- Image Optimization
- Minification
- Bundling
- Compress
- Consistent Hashing
- Code Splitting
- Differential Bundling - Support older browsers
- Diagnostic
- Error Handling
- HTTPs
- Tree Shaking - remove unused code
- Different Builds - for dev and production

## What is `.parcel-cache`?

The `.parcel-cache` directory stores cached data generated by Parcel during the build process. Parcel utilizes caching mechanisms to enhance the build performance by storing intermediate and processed files to avoid redundant computations during subsequent builds.

## What is `npx`?

npx is a command-line tool that comes bundled with Node.js (version 5.2.0 and later) and npm (version 5.2.0 and later). It stands for "Node Package Runner" and is used to execute Node.js packages. When you use npx, it checks whether the specified package is installed in your local project (in the node_modules directory). If the package isn't found locally, npx downloads the latest version of the package, executes the command specified, and then discards the temporary package installation.

## Q. What is the difference between dependencies and dev dependencies?

If the package is needed only for development purpose, it can be added as dev dependency and if it is required in production as well then it needs to be added as normal dependency.

## Q. What is Tree Shaking?

Treeshaking is a process used in modern JavaScript module bundlers, like Webpack or Rollup, to eliminate unused code (also known as dead code) from the final bundled output.

## Q. What is Hot Module Replacement

HMR allows developers to introduce changes to their code in real-time without requiring a full page reload, thereby significantly speeding up the development process and improving the developer experience.

When changes are made to the codebase (such as modifying JavaScript, CSS, or templates), HMR identifies the affected modules and replaces them in the running application without reloading the entire page. This instant update process helps in observing the changes immediately, enhancing the developer's productivity and allowing for rapid iteration during the development phase.

## Q. What is `.gitignore`? What should we add and not add into it?

While commiting our codes to the github repo, we should not commit such codes that can be regenerated for example: node_modules, dist, .parcel-cache. We can add a list of the files or folders in the `.gitignore` that need not be committed, git will ignore all those file automatically and would not track them.

## Q. What is the differece between `package.json` and `package.lock.json`?

`package.json` allows the latest version to be installed however, `package.lock.json` keeps the exact track of the version installed.

## Q. Why should I not modify `package.lock.json`?

Since `package.lock.json` keep tracks of the exact version of the dependencies used. This file ensures that the same versions of dependencies are installed across different machines or environments, `package.lock.json` will make sure that our code is not breaking if there is any breaking change in the updates version. It make sure that the code behaves the same in local as well as production.

## Q. What is node_modules? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

All the packages installed in the project will reside in the node_modules directory.

> We don't need to add node_modules to the repo because they are very heavy and they can be re generated using the command `npm install` since the `package.json` file keeps the list of dependencies.

## Q. What is dist folder?

dist folder is created by the bundlers to store the build files after all the minification, optimization etc.

## Q. What is browserlist?

browserlist is a library that helps us configure the list of browser that should support our code. Bundler accordingly perform the differential bundling to make sure that the browser is able to understand the code.

## Q. What is the ^ carat and ~ tilde symbol in package.json?

^ allows the minor version upgrade, ~ allows the major version upgrade.

## Q. What is transitive dependencies?

When we install a package or dependency, it can have its own set of dependencies which can have further dependencies, this is called transitive dependencies.
